**EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN UNIVERSITY**  
  
**REGULATION FOR MINOR PROGRAMS**

********

**EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION, EXAMINATIONS AND SUCCESS BY-LAW**

(By-law under article 15)

Eastern Mediterranean University Senate has made the following regulation in line with Article 15 of “Eastern Mediterranean University By-law for Education, Examinations and Success”.

****

**I. GENERAL PROVISIONS******

**Brief**** Title** SEN 16.12.2009 09/312-6  SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7**** |  1. |  **“Eastern Mediterranean University Regulation for Minor Programs”**  
---|---|---  
**Description** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  2. |  Unless stated otherwise in this Regulation, Department Chair”, “Faculty Board”, “Rector’s Office”, “Senate” and “School Board” have equivalent meanings with those specified in the By-law on which this Regulation is based. “Semester” refers to the Fall and Spring Terms specified by the University Senate,  
**Aim and Scope** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  3. |  The purpose of this Regulation is to state the principles pertaining to the admission and registration requirements for students who demonstrate successful performance in their major associate or undergraduate programs at Eastern Mediterranean University and who would like to improve their knowledge at another program of interest.   
**The Opening of a Minor Program** |  4. |  The opening of a minor program takes place upon the Senate’s approval based on the recommendations of the department which opens the program and the Faculty or School Board. These programs are executed with the co-operation of the department opening the program and the department benefiting from the program. The minor program consists of a minimum of 18 credits.  
**Application, Admission, and Registration Conditions** |  5. |  (1) |  At the beginning of each semester, quotas are determined and minor programs are announced by the relevant department.  
(2) |  Applications for minor programs take place upon the submission of an application form and a transcript to the Registrar’s Office within the period specified by the Senate.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  (3) |  In order to be eligible to apply for a minor program, the student must possess a CGPA of 2.50 and above and must have successfully completed all credit courses in the undergraduate program until the semester of application.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  (4) |  The student can apply for the announced minor program earliest at the beginning of the 3rd semester of the major undergraduate program and latest at the beginning of the 6th semester of the aforesaid program.  
**** |  (5) |  Students studying at a Turkish medium department and wishing to take a minor program from an English medium department must be successful from the English Proficiency test or certify their level of English with internationally or nationally accepted examinations equivalent to the English Proficiency Test.  
(6) |  Foreign students whose native language is not Turkish should take the Turkish Proficiency Exam or certify their level of Turkish with internationally or nationally-recognised examinations equivalent to the Turkish Proficiency Exam if they wish to study at a minor program conducted in Turkish.  
**** |  (7) |  Candidates who have applied for the university programs that require special skills must enter and be successful in the special skills exams to be carried out by the relevant programs.  
(8) |  Applications fulfilling all the stated requirements are put into process by the Registrar’s Office.  
**** |  (8) |  Admissions take place following the recommendation of the applied department and decision of the relevant Faculty Board.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  (9) |  A student cannot register for more than one minor program or a double-major and a minor program at the same time.  
**Advisorship** |  6. |  The related Department Chair appoints **Minor Program Coordinators** in order to determine the courses to be offered in the minor program, help the students plan the courses they wish to take in each semester and enable the minor program to be carried out in a way fulfilling its aim. The Minor Program Coordinators carry out their duty by keeping in contact with students’ major undergraduate program advisors.  
**Prerequisite Courses** |  7. |  Students following a minor program are required to take the prerequisites of the program courses. If the prerequisite courses have not been taken in the major program before, they must be taken on the condition that they will not be included in the calculation of the GPA (grade point average) of the minor program. Grades obtained from such prerequisite courses are reflected on the minor program transcript.  
**The Relationship between the Major and Minor Programs** |  8. |  (1) |  The student’s success and graduation in the major undergraduate program are not affected by the minor program in any way. A separate grade report and a transcript are prepared for the minor programme.  
(2) |  The courses which are common in both programs appear in the student’s semester record of both programs and are shown on both transcripts. However, these common courses are treated as a single course in the calculation of the course load. In the event of a student’s request to withdraw from a course that is common in both programmes, the withdrawal process takes place in both programs. In cases where the total number of courses taken from the major and the minor programs falls below the 3/5 of the course load in the major program, the student is not given the permission to withdraw from courses.  
(3) |  In order for the students enrolled in a minor program to complete the said program, they must take at least 4 courses with a mimumum total credit value of 12 from the department that offers the minor program in addition to the courses taken jointly and / or are common in both programs.  
**Course Load** |  9. |  (1) |  The total credit course load of a minor program student who takes courses both from the major and minor programs in a semester can exceed the standard course load of the major program by one course if the student holds a CGPA between 2.00-2.49 at the major program.  
(2) |  The total credit course load of a minor program student who takes courses both from the major and minor programs in a semester can exceed the standard course load of the major program by two courses if the student holds a CGPA 2.50 and above at the major program.  
**Success and Program Completion Requirements** |  10. |  (1) |  Students who have obtained the right to graduate from their major program and who have completed the minor program with a minimum GPA of 2.00 are granted a ‘Minor Program Certificate”.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  (2) |  Students who have gained the right to graduate from their major program but who have not yet completed their minor program are given an extra period of one semester in order to complete the minor program. This extra period may be extended subject to the decision of the relevant Faculty Board. These students are given their major program diplomas at the end of the semester of graduation. The minor program Faculty or School Board is responsible for taking decisions about such students.  
**** |  (3) |  Students who have completed a minor program cannot benefit from the rights and privileges given by the undergraduate/school diploma issued by the department/school which offers the minor program.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 7 |  (4) |  If a department offers a double-major program and at the same time a minor program/s, a student who leaves or is dismissed from a double-major program has the right to obtain the minor program certificate for the courses taken from the program, on the condition that s/he has met the preferred minor program requirements until the date of dismissal or leaving the program. If a student in such a situation has not completed all the requirements of the minor program s/he has preferred, s/he is given the right to apply for the minor program with no semester limitations in order to complete the required courses.  
**Leaving the Minor Program Temporarily or Permanently, Dismissal** |  11. |  (1) |  Students can leave the minor program of their own accord.  
|  (2) |  Students already registered at a double-major or minor program can apply for another double-major or minor program on the condition that they meet the application requirements. They can also transfer to a new program provided that they leave the previous program.  
(3) |  A student who is granted a leave of absence in the current major program is also considered to be on a leave of absence in his/her minor program. Upon the recommendation of the department giving the minor program and the decision of the relevant Faculty Board, students who are not able to take any minor program courses due to minor program courses not being opened or course clashes may be granted a leave of absence for a semester.  
(4) |  Students who do not take any courses from the minor program for two consecutive semesters without any permission are dismissed from the minor program.  
(5) |  A student whose CGPA has fallen below 2.00 from the major program is dismissed from the minor program.  
(6) |  A student is dismissed from the minor program if s/he receives a CGPA below 2.00 for two consecutive terms in the minor program.  
(7) |  If a student is dismissed from the minor program, s/he is not required to repeat the courses failed from the minor program. The courses from which the students have become successful in the minor program, but which are not accepted in the major program, appear in the transcript and diploma appendix but are not included the CGPA calculation.  
**Tuition Fees in Minor Programs** |  12. |  (1) |  In addition to the tuition fees of the registered department, students who are admitted to a minor program are required to pay the fee per credit for each minor program course that is not common with the major program courses.  
(2) |  Those students who benefit from scholarships or discounts that are stated in the  _Eastern Mediterranean University Student Scholarship and Discounted Tuition Fee Implementation Regulation_ also benefit from these rights in their minor programs or departments. The duration of the scholarship is for one extra semester after having graduated from the major program.  
(3) |  Students who take additional courses after having met the requirements specified in Article 6 of the ‘ _Course Registration Regulation’_ can also use this right in the minor program, if they wish. For extra courses taken under the circumstances specified above, no payment is made.  
**Executive Power** |  13. |  This regulation is executed by the Eastern Mediterranean University Rector’s Office   
**Coming into Force** |  14. |  This Regulation comes into force following its approval by the EMU Senate.
