**EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN UNIVERISTY**  
  
**DOUBLE-MAJOR PROGRAMS REGISTRATION, ADMISSION AND APPLICATION REGULATION**

**EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION, EXAMINATIONS AND SUCCESS BY-LAW**

(Regulation under article 14)

Eastern Mediterranean University Senate has made the following regulation in line with Article 14 of “Eastern Mediterranean University By-law for Education, Examinations and Success”.

**I. GENERAL PROVISIONS**

**Brief Title** SEN 14.01.2004 03/220-5  SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **1.** |  “Eastern Mediterranean University Double-Major Programs Registration, Admission and Application Regulation”  
---|---|---  
**Aim** **** |  **2.** |  The purpose of this regulation is to determine the procedures and principles pertaining to the instructional program which enables students, who demonstrate successful performance in their undergraduate programs of registration at Eastern Mediterranean University, to obtain the diploma of another undergraduate program either within the same faculty or at another faculty of the University, subject to their wish and admission.  
**Description** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **3.** |  Unless stated otherwise in this regulation; “First Major Program” refers to the undergraduate program of a student’s registered department; “Double-major Program” refers to the educational program formed as a combination of the first and the second major programs, giving students the chance of receiving the first and the second major program diplomas at the same time, “Semester” refers to the Fall and Spring Terms specified by the University Senate, “Second Major Program” refers to the undergraduate program of the department that students want to get the second undergraduate diploma in addition to the diploma of the first major program. “Transcript” refers to the document listing the grades of the students, “Summer Term” is determined by the Senate and refers to the semester other than the Fall and Spring Semesters, “Department Chair”, “Department Board”, “Faculty Board”, “Rector’s Office”, and “Senate” have equivalent meanings with those specified in the By-law on which this Regulation is based.  
  
****

**II. MAIN PROVISIONS**

**The Opening and Implementation of a Double Major Program** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **4.** |  (1) |  A double-major Program is opened upon the request of the “two” relevant departments, the decision of the relevant faculty boards and the approval of the Senate and is carried out with the cooperation of the relevant departments.  
---|---|---|---  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 **** |  (2) |  In departments where students are admitted to double-major programs and where students are sent to another department to study a double-major program, the chair of the relevant department appoints a Double-Major Program Coordinator to determine the courses to be taken by students, help students plan the courses they wish to take in each semester and to ensure that the double-major program is carried out in accordance with its purpose. The Coordinator of the Double-major Program works in collaboration with the students’ major undergraduate program advisor.  
**Quotas and Student Admission Announcement** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **5.** |  Upon taking the recommendations of relevant departments, quotas for double-major programs, program admission and application requirements are announced by relevant faculties at least 5 working days prior to the first day of the registration period of each academic semester.  
**Admission Conditions and Application** |  **6.** |  (1) |  In order to be eligible to apply for a double-major program, students  
(A) |  should already be registered at least for a semester in one of the departments that forms the double-major program and should have renewed their registration during the period of application to the double-major program,  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (B) |  should be at the beginning of the third semester of the first major program the earliest and at the beginning of the fifth semester in four-year programs, and the beginning of the seventh semester in five-year programs, the latest. In the first major associate diploma programs, the student should be at the beginning of the second semester, the earliest and at the beginning of the third semester, the latest.   
**** |  (C) |  should have obtained minimum grade of ‘D’ for all credit courses in the first major program up to the semester of application.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (D) |  should hold a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.00 and must be within the top 20% of the relevant class of the major diploma program in success ranking. However, students who are unable to fulfill the requirements for the specified success ranking may also apply for the double major program if they have a score not less than the base score of the double major program in the relevant year  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (E) |  studying at a Turkish-medium department and wishing to take a double-major program from an English- medium department must be successful from the English Proficiency Test or satisfy the English proficiency requirements with internationally or nationally-recognised examinations equivalent to the English Proficiency Test.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (F) |  Foreign students whose native language is not Turkish should take the Turkish Proficiency Exam or certify their level of Turkish with internationally or nationally-recognised examinations equivalent to the Turkish Proficiency Exam if they wish to study at a double major program conducted in Turkish.  
**** |  (G) |  Candidates who have applied for the university programs that require special skills must enter and be successful in the special skills exams to be carried out by the relevant programs.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (2) |  Students can apply for more than one double-major program but cannot register for more than one double-major program at the same time. However, students can register for a double-major program and a minor program at the same time.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 **** |  (3) |  Applications for double-major programs are submitted to the Registrar’s Office with an application form and a “Transcript” until the last day of the registration period of the academic semester following the announcement of the double-major programs.  
**** |  (4) |  The Registrar’s Office sends all applications to the department of the first major program on the first working day following the registration deadline.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 **** |  (5) |  The Double Major Committee evaluates the applicants’ documents and academic reference letters (if any) and decides on whether the students can be admitted to the Double Major program within the quota, and the courses they will be exempted from, if any, and submits their written decision to the department chair of the first major program, who will seek the approval of the relevant department heads and faculty deans.   
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (6) |  Students who have gained admission to the double-major undergraduate program must register for the said program within the course add-drop period of the relevant academic semester.  
**Double-Major Program** |  **7.** |  (1) |  A double-major program is made up of at least 36 credits in addition to the total credit value of all courses in the first major program.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (2) |  Courses to be taken in the double-major program are determined by the relevant department boards.  
**** |  (3) |  The courses, other than the additional courses, in both major programs should overlap in terms of content and equivalence within the framework of the principles of course equivalence applied in the relevant departments.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (4) |  For students registered in a double-major program, a general and a separate transcript is prepared for each major program  
**** |  (5) |  Courses that are common in both major programs appear in the student’s semester registration of each program and are also shown on both “Transcripts”.  
**** |  (6) |  Compulsory courses in the double-major program, equivalency of the courses, common courses in both major programs and principles to be followed in the first major program for those students who leave the program are specified in the “Double-major Programs and Application Principles”.   
**** |  (7) |  Being admitted to or leaving a double-major undergraduate program is not considered as horizontal transfer for students.  
**Semester Leave** |  **8.** |  (1) |  A student who has been granted a leave of absence in the first major program is also considered to have been on a leave of absence in his/her second major program.  
(2) |  Upon the recommendation of the relevant program coordinator, the proposal of the department to which the first major program is affiliated and the approval of the relevant Faculty Dean, students who are not able to take any courses at the second major program due to courses not being opened or course clashes may be granted a leave of absence for a semester in their second major program.  
**Course Withdrawal** |  **9.** |  If a student of the double-major program wants to withdraw from a course that is common both in the first and the second major programs, the process of withdrawal will take place in both programs and this will be shown on both “Transcripts”.  
**Course Load** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **10.** |  (1) |  The total number of credit courses in the first and second major programs of double-major students whose first major CGPA is between 2.00 and 2.49 can exceed the standard course load of the relevant academic semester of the first major program by one course, at most.   
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (2) |  The total number of credit courses in the first and second major programs of double-major students whose first major CGPA is 2.50 or above can exceed the standard course load of the relevant academic semester of the first major program by two courses, at most.  
**Success in the Program and Leaving the Program** |  **11.** |  (1) |  A student’s success and graduation in the first major program are not affected by the second major program in any way.  
(2) |  Students who wish to leave the double-major undergraduate program of their own accord should submit a written petition to the department which offers the first major program until the last day of the course add-drop period. Applications submitted after this period are put into practice as of the beginning of the following academic semester.  
(3) |  A student whose CGPA falls below 2.00 for two consecutive semesters in the first major program or whose CGPA falls below 2.00 for two consecutive semesters in the second major program is dismissed from the double major program. In the application of this rule, only the results of the Fall and Spring Semesters are taken into account. In order for the student to graduate from the double major program, his/her CGPA must be at least 3.00. During the entire period of double major education, the student's CGPA may decrease as low as 2.50 only for once.  
**** |  (4) |  Students who do not take any courses from the second major program for two consecutive semesters without any semester leave of absence are dismissed from the double-major program.  
(5) |  If a student is dismissed from the double-major program or leaves the program of his/her own accord, s/he is not required to repeat the failed second major program courses that do not appear in the first major program.  
(6) |  Students who leave the double-major program of their own accord or whose registration has been terminated cannot apply for the same double-major undergraduate program again.  
(7) |  If a student goes back to the first major program by leaving the double-major undergraduate program or transfers to another department horizontally, s/he is required to satisfy the requirements of the new program and loses the privileges of the double-major undergraduate program.  
(8) |  If a student leaves the double-major undergraduate program and transfers to another department horizontally instead of returning back to the first major program, provisions of  _the EMU Education, Examinations and Success By-Law_ are applied.  
(9) |  A written notification about the situation of a student who leaves the double-major program of his/her own accord or whose registration is terminated from the double-major program is sent to the Registrar’s Office by the department of the second-major program.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  (10) |  A student leaving the double-major undergraduate program may apply to her/his own department for the exemption of courses taken at the double-major undergraduate program. The student’s request is evaluated in scope of EMU Exemptions and Equivalency Procedures Regulations.  
SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **** |  (11) |  The courses from which the students have become successful in the second major program, but which are not accepted in the first major program, are included in the transcript and diploma appendix without being included the CGPA.  
**Graduation and Diplomas** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **12.** |  (1) |  A Second Major Undergraduate Diploma is given to a student who gains the right for graduation from the first major program, on the condition that s/he fulfills the conditions specified in Article 11(3) of the present regulation.  
(2) |  Students who obtain the right for graduation from the second major program are not given the second major undergraduate diploma until they obtain the right for graduation from the first major program.  
(3) |  Students who have obtained the right for graduation from the first major program but who have not yet completed the second major program are given a first major undergraduate diploma. Such students can benefit from an extension of maximum two semesters excluding the summer term to complete the second major program. This period can be further extended subject to the decision of the Faculty/School Executive Board. Following the completion of the double-major undergraduate program, such students receive the second major undergraduate diploma at the end of the relevant semester.   
(4) |  Students can register for a postgraduate program between the periods of graduation from the first major program and the second major program. Students in such situation are also subject to the tuition fees specified for the postgraduate program.  
(5) |  Student-related procedures of a student who has graduated from the first major program but who still attends the second major program are carried out by the department of the second major program.  
**Tuition Fees in the Double Major Program** |  **13.** |  (1) |  In addition to the tuition fees of the registered department, students who are admitted to a double-major undergraduate program are required to pay the relevant year’s fee per credit for each course in the second major program that is not common with the first major program courses.  
(2) |  Those students who benefit from scholarships or discounts that are stated in the  _Eastern Mediterranean University Student Scholarship and Discounted Tuition Fee Implementation Regulation_ in their first major program can also benefit from these rights in their second major program/department. The duration of the scholarship/discount is for two semesters after having graduated from the first major program.  
(3) |  Students who are allowed to take additional courses from their first major program after having met the requirements specified in Article 6 of the ‘ _Course Registration Regulation’_ can use this right in the second major program, if they wish. For extra courses taken under the circumstances specified above, no payment is made.  
**Unprescribed****Matters** |  **14.** |  Any matters not clearly defined in this Regulation are subject to the provisions of _Education, Examinations and Success_  _By-law_. Matters that are not covered anywhere in the present regulation are subject to the joint decisions of the relevant faculty boards who will take the recommendations of the department boards upon the suggestions of the corresponding double-major committee.  
|  |   
  
**III. TEMPORARY PROVISION**

**Temporary Provision** SEN 26.02.2019 19/447-6 EK 6 |  **15.** |  The CGPA restrictions specified in Articles 11(3) and 12(1) of the present regulation are applied to students enrolling in double-major programs as of the Spring Semester of the 2018-2019 Academic Year. For students who have enrolled in double major programs before the aforesaid date, the criteria of success specified in the former regulation is applied.  
---|---|---  
  
****

**IV. FINAL PROVISIONS**

**Executive Power** |  **16.** |  This regulation is executed by the Eastern Mediterranean University Rector’s Office.  
---|---|---  
**Coming into Force** |  **17.** |  This regulation comes into force following the date of its approval by the Eastern Mediterranean University Senate. 
