In the event of the lack of mutual agreement between two parties regarding the English version of these regulations, the Turkish version will be considered as a valid source for reference.   
  
**EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN UNIVERSITY**

**REGULATIONS FOR TUITION FEES**

****

****

With the approval the North Cyprus Education Foundation, Board of Trustees, Eastern Mediterranean University Senate has made the following by-law in line with Article 7(2) and Article 32 of the “By Law for Education, Examinations and Success”.

**** |  **** |  **I. General Provisions** ****  
---|---|---  
**Brief Name** |  **1.** |  **“Eastern Mediterranean University Tuition Fee Regulations”** ****  
**Definitions** |  **2.** |  Unless otherwise stated, the following terms appearing in these regulations refer to the definitions stated below. **“EMU”** refers to Eastern Mediterranean University **“Thesis Package Program Fee”** refers to the total fee to be paid for 7 courses, seminar course, thesis and funds appearing in the postgraduate program with thesis requirements. **“Non-thesis Package Program Fee”** refers to the total fee to be paid for 10 courses, projects and funds appearing in the postgraduate program without any thesis requirements.  **“Registered student”** refers to a student who has obtained “access” after having fulfilled financial obligations for the relevant semester and who, at the same time, has selected courses even though the academic advisor’s approval has not been received yet. **“Student on a Leave of Absence ” refers** to a student who, after having carried out the relevant procedures, takes a leave of absence in line with the provisions of the By-Law for “Education, Examinations and Success”.  **“Student with Awaiting Registration”** refers to a student who has not fulfilled his/her registration procedures for the relevant semester within the specified registration period. **“Student with Cancelled Registration”** refers to a student who cancels his/her registration from the University due to various reasons.   
**Aim** |  **3.** |  The aim of these regulations is to regulate the tuition fees for students of Eastern Mediterranean University when registering to the University, taking a leave of absence and cancelling registration from the University.   
**Scope** |  **4.** |  These regulations cover all those who have gained admission to Eastern Mediterranean University as well as previously registered students, students who take a leave of absence and students with awaiting registration.   
**** |  **** |  **II. Tuition Fees** ****  
**Specification and Announcement of the Tuition Fees** |  **5.** |  Undergraduate and graduate studies in Eastern Mediterranean University are charged. Annual tuition fees are determined by the Board of Trustees before the announcement of the entrance exams and announced by the Rector’s Office, accordingly.   
**Payment of the Tuition Fees** |  **6.** |  (1) Students of the associate degree/undergraduate programs are required to pay the semester fees obtained by dividing the annual tuition fees into two equal installments either in total at the beginning of the relevant academic semester or in installments specified in amount and payment date throughout the academic semester, if found suitable by the Board of Trustees.  (2) Postgraduate program students who pay tuition fees per course are subject to the payment of the semester tuition fee corresponding with the number of registered courses per semester.  (3) Postgraduate students in thesis/non-thesis programs are subject to the payment of the tuition fees per semester specified within the framework of the Principles for EMU Postgraduate Package Fee Application.   
**Financial Conditions for Semester Course Registration** |  **7.** |  (1) The minimum requirement for course registration is the payment of the first installment, if the payment is going to be made in installments, of the specified tuition fees and not having any outstanding payments to the University from the previous semesters. Those students with incomplete course registration are not allowed to attend classes and laboratories or take exams. The University does not issue any documents for those in such situation. (2) However, all students whose financial problems and/or problems in cash transfer have been brought to the attention of the Rector’s Office are granted the right for provisional registration only for one semester. Students who have registered with this method are granted the right to attend courses and sit for exams during the designated period (one semester) but no official documents are issued for them until they fulfill their financial obligations. Correspondingly, students who fail to fulfill their financial obligations until the beginning of the following semester may not benefit from this right during the upcoming semesters.  
**Penalty/Interest Application to Outstanding Tuition Fees/ Installments** |  **8.** |  (1) A late payment penalty and/or interest recommended by the Rector’s Office and approved by the Board of Trustees is applied on the tuition fees/tuition fee installment/s that have not been paid by the specified date.  (2) Removal of the late payment penalties and/or interest applied on all or some students, including those in the graduation semester, who have outstanding payments to the University is subject to the evaluation of the Board of Trustees.   
**Tuition Fees for Students on Part-time Status** |  **9.** |  In accordance with Article 13 of the By-law for Education, Examinations and Success, associate degree/undergraduate program students who are on part-time status are subject to the payment of the tuition fees corresponding with the proportion of the number of taken courses and the normal course load of the relevant semester. (1) Those students registered to the 3-year programs of School of Computing and Technology are required to pay 1/5 of the semester tuition fee for one course and 2/5 for two courses to be taken during the graduation semester.  (2) Students who have internship practice as the only remaining requirement for their graduation are subject to the payment of the tuition fee annually specified for the internship practice by the University Executive Board.  (3) Postgraduate students on part-time status are subject to the payment of the tuition fees per course.   
**** |  **** |  **III. Awaiting Registration/ Registration Cancellation** ****  
**Students with Awaiting/Cancelled Registration** |  **10.** |  Registration of those students who have not completed the relevant registration procedures until the course add-drop period of the relevant academic semester is put on the awaiting status. Following two semesters of awaiting registration status, the relevant student is required to complete the registration procedures until the end of the specified course add-drop period of the following academic semester. Otherwise, the student’s registration is cancelled.   
**** |  **** |  **IV. Taking a Leave of Absence** ****  
**Application for a Leave of Absence and its Evaluation** |  **11.** |  Application for and the evaluation of a leave of absence and are both carried out in accordance with Article 27 of the By-law for Education, Examinations and Success.   
**Taking a Leave of Absence and Financial Obligations** |  **12.** |  Students whose applications for a leave of absence have been approved by the relevant bodies are subject to the payment of the fees for taking a leave of absence in accordance with the tuition fee specified for the relevant semester and the application date. (1) The fees for taking a leave of absence for students registered as full-time (with no scholarships and/or discounts) are calculated in accordance with the annual tuition fee specified for them. (2) If a student registers for all credit and/or non-credit courses to be completed for graduation purposes and falls into the part-time status, the fee for taking a leave of absence is calculated according to the “part-time student tuition fee” to be paid during registration.  (3) If the students who receive tuition fee scholarships or discounts take a leave of absence, they are required to pay the fees for taking a leave of absence in accordance with the tuition fee specified in Item (1).  (4) Concerning all evaluations regarding time, the academic calendar specified for the relevant year is taken as a source of reference. (5) Associate Degree/Undergraduate program students who registered during the previous semester or who have registered for the first time:   
  
**(a)** |  Students who apply until the end of the registration period of the relevant semester and, at the same time, who   
---|---  
**** |  **i** |  registered during the previous semester |  pay 10% of the semester tuition fee  
**** |  **ii.** |  registered for the first time |  pay 20% of the semester tuition fee  
**(b)** |  apply during the course add-drop period  |  pay 20% of the semester tuition fee  
**(c)** |  Following the last day of the course add-drop period, those who apply ……   
**** |  **i****.** |  within the 1st week |  pay 25% of the semester tuition fee  
**** |  **ii.** |  between the first day of the 2nd and the last day of the 5th week  |  pay 35% of the semester tuition fee  
**** |  **iii.** |  apply between the beginning of the 6th week and the last day of course withdrawal period |  pay 55% of the semester tuition fee  
**** |  **iv.** |  apply after the deadline specified for the course withdrawal.  |  pay 100% of the semester tuition fee  
  
**** |  |  (6) Regardless of the thesis/non-thesis program package fee or payment per course or full-time or part-time student status, students registered at postgraduate programs are subject to the procedures specified below which are based on the post-graduate course fee application in thesis postgraduate programs.   
---|---|---  
  
  
**(a)** |   
---|---  
**** |  **i****.** |  Previously registered students who apply until the end of the normal registration period of the relevant semester  |  50% of a postgraduate course fee is paid   
**** |  **ii.** |  First time registering students who apply until the end of the normal registration period of the relevant semester |  The fee specified for a postgraduate course is paid ****  
**(b)** |  Students who apply within the period starting from the beginning of the course add-drop period until the deadline for course withdrawal.  |  The fee specified for a postgraduate course is paid  
**(c)** |  Those applying after the deadline for course withdrawal period. |  The total fee (100%) for the number of registered courses is paid.  
  
**** |  |  **(7) Students on “awaiting registration” status** **** (a) Associate Degree/Undergraduate Students If they apply during the following semester or before, they are required to pay 10% of the semester tuition fee for each semester with awaiting registration status.  (b) Postgraduate Students If they apply during the following semester or before, they are required to pay 50% of the tuition fee specified for a postgraduate course for each semester with awaiting registration status.   
---|---|---  
**** |  |  **** **(8)** **New Students Whose Registration Procedures are Completed After the Deadline for Course Add-Drop Period** New students, whose registration procedures are completed after the deadline for course add-drop period due to their admission date or problems to do with visa or transportation, may freeze their registration on the condition that fees for the relevant student activity fund, health insurance and other similar funds and premiums for the relevant academic semester are paid. Tuition fees already paid by such students are transferred to the following semester.   
**** **** **** **Financial Obligations for Cancelling Registration from the University** |  **** **** **** **13.** |  Applications for cancelling registration from the University are evaluated with a consideration of the student’s application date to the relevant department/school. Financial obligations of the students cancelling their registration from the University are regulated in accordance with the specifications below.  |  **(1)** |   
---|---  
**** |  **(a)** |  Previously registered students applying before the normal registration period  |  10%  
**** |  **(b)** |  Newly registered students applying before the normal registration period  |  20%  
**(2)** |  Students applying within the course add-drop period  |  20%  
**(3)** |  Out of the students applying after the course add-drop period, those applying within the  
**** |  **(a)** |  1st week |  30%  
**** |  **(b)** |  2nd week |  40 %  
**** |  **(c)** |  3rd week |  60%  
**** |  **(d)** |  4th week  |  80%  
**** |  **(e)** |  5th week or after  |  100%  
  
(4) In the event of a student with awaiting registration or left status applying to cancel his/her registration from the University, s/he is not financially responsible for the semester/semesters with “awaiting registration” or “left” status. 

(5) In the event of a student on a leave of absence applying to cancel his/her registration from the University until the course add-drop of the semester following the semester the student was on a leave of absence, the student is required to pay the fee for cancelling registration taking into consideration the application date for the leave of absence and in line with the conditions specified in items 1, 2 and 3 of the article herein.   
  
**** |  **** |  **V.Fees for the Summer Term, Double Major/Minor Programs and Courses Taken from Another Program or Outside the University** ****  
**Summer Term Course Fees** |  **14.** |  (1) Students are required to pay separate tuition fees for the courses taken during the Summer Term. The fee for each course is determined as the fee per credit for credit courses and as the fee per course for non-credit courses upon the recommendation of the Rector’s Office and the approval of the Board of Trustees. The fees are announced by the Rector’s Office minimum 4 weeks prior to the start of the Summer term.  (2) In order for a student to be eligible to take a course during the Summer Term, the fee/s for the relevant course/s should be paid in total within the period specified on the Academic Calendar.  (3) If a student wishes to take courses during the Summer Term and, at the same time, has outstanding payments to the University, the payment of the debts may be delayed until the Fall Semester of the following academic year.   
**Fees for Double Major/Minor Program Courses or Courses Taken from Another Program** |  **15.** |  **(** 1). Apart from the tuition fees specified for the first major program, students registered at double major/minor programs or students who take courses from another program are also required to pay the fee specified per credit during the relevant year for every course (to be taken from the second major/minor program or from another program) not common with the courses of the first major program or exceeding the normal course load envisaged for the first major program.  **** (2) Students who benefit from a scholarship or discount specified in the “By-law for EMU Student Scholarships and Discounted Tuition Fee Application” in their first major program may also use their scholarship or discount rights in their second major/minor program at the relevant department/program. The duration of the scholarship following the student’s graduation from the first major program is two half years for the second major and half a year for the minor program. (3) Those students who are allowed to take extra courses from the first major program by fulfilling the conditions specified in Article 6 of the “By-law for Course Registration” may use this right for courses appearing in the second major/minor program or another program, if they wish. In such a situation, no fee payments are required for courses to be taken under these circumstances.   
**Fees for Courses Taken Outside the University** |  **16.** |  (1) Students who take courses from another institution of higher education pay the tuition fee specified for the Spring/Fall Semester. Regarding the Summer Term, they are required to pay the total fee specified for the course/s to be taken in line with the Summer Term course fees specified in EMU.  (2) However, in the event of the student being required to pay fees for courses in the hosting institution of higher education, the fee to be paid to the University is determined by the University Executive Board.   
**** **** |  **** |  **** **VI. Various Provisions** ****  
**Issuing Documents** |  **17.** |  No official documents are issued for those who have outstanding payments to the University or those on “awaiting registration”, “left” or “graduate” status.   
**Inexplicit Matters or Special Conditions** |  **18.** |  Matters that have not been explicitly stated in these regulations or students who have gained positive views of the relevant academic unit(s) due to their special condition are evaluated by the Board of Trustees upon the recommendation of the Rector’s Office and positive views of the University Executive Board.   
**** |  **** |  **** **VII. Temporary Provisions** ****  
**Temporary Provision** |  **1.** |  Regarding the fees for the “leave of absence” already paid to the University before these regulations take effect, students are not entitled to ask for any discounts or refunds.   
**Temporary Provision** |  **2.** |  Following the date these regulations take effect, “Principles for Taking a Leave of Absence and Cancelling Registration from the University” fall into desuetude.   
**** |  **** |  **VIII. Final Provisions** ****  
**Executive Power** |  **19.** |  These regulations are executed by Eastern Mediterranean University Rector’s Office.  
**Coming into Force** |  **20.** |  These regulations come into force following the approval of the Board of Trustees. 
