**In the case of absence of mutual agreement between two parties regarding the English version**

**of****these regulations, Turkish version regulations are valid and will be applied.**

**[Board] Regulations for Education, Examinations and Success**

(18/1986, 39/1992, 58/1992, 37/1997)

(Regulations under articles 18, 24, 25, 28, 30, 31 and 32)

Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Council of Ministers approve this regulation made by the Board under Articles 18., 24., 25., 28., 30., 31. and 32\. of the Statute (18/1986) establishing the University.

****

****

**** |  **** |  **I. GENERAL PROVISIONS**  
---|---|---  
**Brief Title** |  1. |  **‘** Regulation for Eastern Mediterranean University Education, Examinations and Success’  
**Definitions** |  2. |  Unless otherwise indicated, the meanings of the terms “Council of**** Ministers”, “Chairperson of the Department ”, “Department Council”,**** “Dean”, “Director of Institute”, “Faculty  Academic Council”, “Director of the English Preparatory School”, “Rector”, “Senate”,**** “Board” and “School Director” are equivalent to their meanings**** defined in the By-Law the  Regulation is based on. “University fees” are the payments made by students to receive  educational services and to sit examinations.  
**Scope** |  3. |  These Regulations cover the rules related to registration procedures,**** education, examinations, criteria for success, conditions for graduation**** and receiving titles from the University.  
**** |  |  **II. REGISTRATION AND ADMISSION PROVISIONS**  
**Conditions for Student** **Registration and** **Admission** |  4 |  (1) Every academic year the number of students who will be accepted in the University is determined by the Board upon the recommendation of the Senate. (2) Terms for student admission procedures and requirements are determined according to the “Entrance Examination and Admission By-Laws” approved by the Senate. (3) All student registrations and applications to enter the University must be addressed to the Registrar’s Office. (4) In the case that a student submits fake documents during entrance to University, such student will be dismissed from the University without the right for any refund or any payments made.  
**Duration of Studies, Academic Programs** **And Academic Calendar** |  5. |  (1) The Academic Calendar is to be prepared and approved by the Senate before April and announced by the Rectors’ office by the end of May. (2) An academic program consists of theoretical courses, laboratory, studio, workshops, tutorials and other similar studies. Academic programs, their content, number of courses and total credit hours are prepared by the Departments or Schools, finalized by Faculty or School Boards and approved by the Senate.  (3) The duration of educational programs offered by different units of the University are as follows: (a) Undergraduate programs: 4-5 academic years (b) School programs: 2-3 academic years (c) Graduate programs: The duration of these programs are set by the Senate according to the “Graduate Studies By-Laws”. (d) English Preparatory School: 1 semester – 1 year. (4) Students who are admitted into EMU through transfer from other universities must take a minimum of half of the total credit-hours required by the relevant program in order to graduate from EMU. Graduation of such students is subject to successful completion of the program as laid out in these regulations.  
**Medium of Instruction** |  6. |  The medium of instruction is English. Turkish instruction in some units is possible subject to the decision of the Senate.  
**Tuition Fee** |  7. |  (1) Tuition fees to be paid by the students are determined by the Board and announced by the Rector’s office before the announcement of the University entrance exams. (2) Every student has to pay the tuition fee at the beginning of each semester within the registration period according to the principles and procedures set by the ‘Tuition Fee By-Laws’. Failing this leads to the prohibition of such students from attending classes, labs, sitting examinations and issuing any official documents by the University. (3) Paid fees are not refunded except in the circumstances stated in Article 11 of these Regulations.  
**Credit System** |  8. |  “Credit-hours” quantify the amount of education taken in each semester. The number of weekly lecture hours is taken into account when calculating the credit-hour value. Each weekly lecture hour counts as 1 credit-hour. Laboratory and tutorial hours are also taken into account.  
**The Student Advisor** |  9. |  A Student Advisor is a member of the academic staff who guides the student in choosing a semester’s courses, or in other academic, administrative and social matters. The appointment of student advisors is organized by the Department Chair or School Director.  
**Registration,** **Course Load,** **Course Requirements,** **Add and Drop,** **Withdrawal,** **Repeating Courses** |  10. |  Students are expected to renew their registration during the registration period announced by the Rectors’ office at the beginning of each semester. (1) Course registration follows fulfillment of the financial requirements. Courses in which a student is to register every semester are determined in accordance with the provisions of ‘Course Registration Regulations’, in view of the student’s performance, in consultation with the Student Advisor and the approval of the Department Chair or School Director. (2) ‘Registration By-Law’ covers the rules related to semester course load, registration, course requirements, repeating, adding, dropping and withdrawing from courses and conditions for late registration  (3) Students are expected to register in all compulsory courses for the first and second semesters before taking other courses.  (4) Students who fail to renew their registration for two consecutive semesters are dismissed from the university.  
**Cancelling Registration from** **the University and Refunding** |  11. |  A student can cancel registration from the University by applying in writing to the Registrars’ Office and completing the necessary process. Following the completion of the process, the student will be entitled to a refund of the tuition fee based on the principles determined by the Board.  
**Attendance Requirements** |  12. |  Students are required to attend the registered courses, laboratory, studio,**** tutorial, practice, other academic studies and examinations required by the related**** course instructor. Student attendance is monitored and assessed by the course instructor. A student who fails to meet the requirements of a course or who is absent more than the limit specified by the Faculty or School is considered to be unsuccessful in that course.  
**Student Status** |  13. |  Students can be categorized as _full-time_ , _part-time_ , _special_ and _visiting_. (1) Students have the full-time status provided that they take 3/5 or more of the total credit hours per semester at an undergraduate or school program. (2)**** Students who take less than 3/5 of the total credit hours per semester upon the recommendation of the student advisor and consent of the department head/school director are considered as part-time at an undergraduate or school program.  (3) A student who is not registered to any program, but who is permitted to attend the lectures of some courses, is given the status of Special Student. No diploma or degree is conferred upon such students, but a certificate showing the courses completed and student performance is prepared by the Registrar's Office. Applications for Special Student status are evaluated and decided on by the Department Chair or the School Director. Registration of accepted special students is carried out by the Registrar’s Office according to the rules stated in these regulations. Such students are required to possess at least a Secondary School Diploma.  (4) Students who receive undergraduate or postgraduate education at an institution within the country or abroad and, upon their institution’s consent, who take courses at the Eastern Mediterranean University with the aim of credit transfer are considered as visiting students. No diploma or degree is conferred upon such students, but a transcript summarizing the courses taken and credits earned is issued. Rules and regulations regarding students with the visiting status are determined in the By-Law approved by the Senate.   
**Double Major Programs** |  14. |  During their undergraduate education, students in one department may simultaneously  follow another undergraduate program within the same Faculty or at any other Faculty or  School, on the condition that they meet specific requirements. Such a program of  education is referred to as the "Double Major Program." In order to be part of such a  program, students should meet specific requirements. Rules and regulations concerning  Double Major Programs are determined by the ‘Double Major Program By-Laws’ approved  by the Senate.  
**Minor Programs** |  15. |  15\. During their undergraduate education, students in one department may follow another  program within the same Faculty or at any other Faculty/School to become knowledgeable  in another subject that they are interested in. Such a program of education is referred as the  ‘Minor Program’. Taking part in a Minor Program does not allow the student to have two  under-graduate degrees. Rules and regulations concerning Minor Programs are determined  by the ‘Minor Program By-Laws’ approved by the Senate.  
**** |  |  **III. EXAMINATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS**  
**Course Grades and Grade Points** |  |  (1) Performance of a student for each course registered, is evaluated by the Course Instructor as a letter grade given below. **Letter Grade** **Grade****Point** A 4.00 A- 3.70 B+ 3.30 B 3.00 B- 2.70 C+ 2.30 C 2.00 C- 1.70 D+ 1.30 D 1.00 D- 0.70 F 0.00 NG 0.00 I = Incomplete - W =Withdrawal - S = Satisfactory - U = Unsatisfactory - NG = Nil Grade due to absenteeism A student who receives A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, D+, D or S from a course is considered to have succeeded in that course _._ (2) A student who receives D-, F, NG or U from a course is required to take that course again in the next semester that it is offered. (3)**“I” Incomplete:** “I” grade is given to students who have not sat the end of semester exam and/or has not completed some of the projects/ laboratory work which contributes to the end-of-semester grade because of a valid reason that can officially be proved if required. Such students are obliged to sit for the missed exam and/or complete the project/laboratory work at least one week before the registration period of the following semester. Failure to comply with this will result in an automatic F grade being given for the concerned course. However, students whose reason for absenteeism continues at the end of the above indicated deadline, must apply to the Department with official certification indicating the continuation of the reason for absenteeism. The Department Chair will then take the issue to the Faculty Academic Council where a decision will be taken on the period for the completion of the “I” grade. The period of completion requirement mentioned above is not valid for graduating students. Faculty Academic Councils determine these students’ situations. An “I” grade is not taken into account in the computation of the Grade Point Average (GPA) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). A student who thinks is eligible for “I” grade, must apply to the Course Instructor together with official documentation supporting the case, at most 3 working days following the final examination date of the course. (4)**“W” Withdrawal from a Course** The grade “W” is given to students who were allowed to withdraw from a registered course between the 3rd and 11th weeks of the semester, counting from the starting date for the courses. The “W” grade is shown on the transcript of the student. (5) **“S”-“U” Satisfactory- Unsatisfactory** The grades “S” or “U” are given to students who are registered to certain courses or training. “S” indicates satisfactory and “U” indicates unsatisfactory completion of the course.  (6) The letter grade equivalent of marks given out of 100 is determined by the Senate. (7) **“NG” Nil Grade/ Failing from Absenteeism:** Students who do not comply with the required level attendance and/or not fulfilling the requirements for the evaluation of the course are given the “NG” grade by the Instructor of the Course based on the criteria determined by the Faculty/School Academic Council. Students are informed about the criteria for receiving the “NG” grade by the related course instructor at the beginning of the semester. “NG” grade is included in the computation of GPA and CGPA.  
**English Preparatory School** **Programs** |  17. |  (1) Students accepted to EMU programs where the medium of instruction is in English, but do not have the required level of English to follow the courses are admitted to the Preparatory School. Syllabi is prepared by the School to equip such students with sufficient English enabling them to follow the program they are registered to. (2) Students at the Preparatory School are required to follow the program prepared by the School Directorate, based on the English Proficiency Exam Part I results.  (3) The duration of each program to be followed at the Preparatory School cannot be less than one semester.  
**Examinations and** **Success at the English Preparatory** **School and Moving to the** **Freshman Year** |  18. |  (1) Students who have successfully passed the English Proficiency Test prepared by the Preparatory School, obtains the right to enter the freshman year of their chosen program at a Faculty or School. (2) The English Proficiency Test takes place at the beginning and the end of the Spring and Fall Semesters. The Proficiency Test which is held at the end of the Fall Semester and at the beginning of the Spring Semester may be administered on the same date. The English Proficiency Test is held according to the dates specified in the English Preparatory School Academic calendar approved by the Senate and under the conditions stated below:  (a) New students who have registered in the University at the beginning of the fall semester and/or students who have already attended the Preparatory School programs are allowed to take the Proficiency test at the beginning of the fall semester. (b) Students who have successfully completed the Intermediate or Upper-intermediate programs are eligible to take the English Proficiency Exam at the end of the Fall Semester. (c) Students registering for the first time to the University at the beginning of the Spring Semester are allowed to take the English Proficiency Exam at the beginning of the Spring Semester. (d) Students who have successfully completed the Intermediate or Upper-Intermediate programs can sit for the English Proficiency Exam administered at the end of the Spring Semester. (e) Students who are on leave of absence are not allowed to take the English Proficiency Test administered at the end of the Fall Semester, the beginning and end of the Spring Semester (f) Students who have studied in the Preparatory School but have not successfully completed the Intermediate Level are allowed to take the English Proficiency Exam which is administered at the end of the Summer Semester subject to attending and successfully completing the Intermediate level during the summer school. (g) Success in the Intermediate or Upper Intermediate program is necessary but not sufficient for the completion of the program in the Preparatory School. Success in the English Proficiency examination is also necessary for successful completion of the program in the Preparatory School. (h) Criteria for the English Proficiency Test content may be set by the English Preparatory School and Faculty Councils considering the needs of the students in terms of language structures and skills. (i) Students who succeed in the Intermediate program, but fail in the English Proficiency examination follow the Upper-intermediate program. These students have the right to take the English Proficiency Test as stated in items (a), (b), and (d).  (j) Students who succeed in Upper Intermediate program, but fail in the English Proficiency examination are expected to enroll for the 16 weeks program (English for Academic purposes, English for Specific purposes) specifically designed for them. These students have the right to take the English Proficiency Test as stated in items (a), (b), and (d).  (3) Students who have studied in the English Preparatory School for 2 years and have failed the English Proficiency Examination are dismissed.  **** (4) TRNC students receiving education at the English Preparatory School have the right to transfer to Turkish-medium departments regardless of their performance at Preparatory School, if requested.  
**Examinations and** **Success in Undergraduate** **Studies and Two-year Programs** |  19. |  (1) In every academic semester, a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 3 mid-terms and a final examination are given to students in each course. Exams shorter than 30 minutes (quizzes) are excluded from this limitation. (2) At the beginning of each semester, the course instructor prepares a course outline indicating the topics to be covered during the semester together with project or laboratory/workshop topics where applicable. The number of examinations and their weights are also included. Copies of the course outline must be submitted to the Department and given to the students or posted on the web-page of the course at the beginning of the semester. (3) When laboratory/workshop projects are listed in the course outline, they must be completed satisfactorily for the student to pass the course. A student who fails to fulfill these requirements fails the course. (4) The final examinations are administered at least 3 days after the official end of classes on specific dates and times determined by the Rectors’ Office. (5) No midterm examinations can be administered in the final week of the semester. (6) The examinations of each course are prepared and evaluated by the course instructor. In multi-group courses coordination between the Instructors is essential. (7) The semester grade of a course should be recorded according to Article 16 of these regulations.  
**Success in Undergraduate Studies and Two-year Programs for Students** **Registered before 2007-08** |  20. |  Performance of a student in a semester is computed according**** to the following principles. (1) Performance of a student is based on a Grade Point Average (GPA) calculation method for each semester. Credit received from a course is found by multiplying the credit hours by the coefficient corresponding to the grade received. The GPA is then found by dividing the sum of the credits received from all courses registered during the semester by the total credit hours of the same courses. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is computed by dividing the total credits received from all courses the student has completed since joining the program by the sum of the credit hours of these courses. In cases when a course is repeated, the last grade is included in the GPA and CGPA computations. In all average computations the letter grades given under Article 16(1) are used. Averages should be computed up to 2 decimals after the decimal point. (2) A student is considered successful at the end of a semester, if the GPA is at least 2.00 out of 4.00. If a student registered to the normal course load of a program in a department scores a GPA between 3.00 and 3.49, s/he is designated an 'Honor' student, if the GPA is between 3.50 and 4.00 s/he is designated a 'High Honor' student. (3) “Academic term” refers to the actual registered position of a student in semesters within the department’s published program of study. The academic term determines the relevant CGPA limit listed in the next paragraph. The academic term of a student is determined by the Department or School taking into account all courses registered and the academic records of the student. (4) The criteria stated in Articles 20(6), 20 (7), 20 (9), 20(10) and 20(11) of these Regulations are applied to those students who are enrolled in a 4 year diploma program and whose CGPA’s are below the limits specified below. At the end of the first year or the second academic term 1.15 At the end of third academic term 1.35 At the end of fourth academic term 1.55 At the end of fifth academic term 1.70 At the end of sixth academic term 1.80 At the end of seventh academic term 1.90 (5) The criteria stated in Articles 20(6), 20 (7), 20 (9), 20(10) and 20(11) of these Regulations are applied to those students who are enrolled in two-year diploma programs and whose CGPA’s are the limits specified below. At the end of the first year or the second academic term 1.30 At the end of third academic term 1.65 (6) Students enrolled in a four-year program whose CGPA’s are below the limits specified in Article 20(4), and students enrolled in 2 year programs and whose CGPA’s are below the limits specified in Article 20(5) are given an ‘Academic Warning’. (7) Taking into consideration the opinion of the Student’s Advisor, one of the following options is offered to students who have received an academic warning a) With the decision of the Department or School Council, the student will be transferred to another program, subject to the availability of student places (contingencies). Within this framework, transfer from a two-year program to a four-year program is not possible. (b) “Continuing in their currently registered program”. Students who opt to stay in the same program following an Academic Warning are obliged to repeat failed courses before registering to new courses. In the Faculty of Law, such students can be allowed to register up to 3 new courses, in other programs up to 2 new courses, if the number of failed courses offered can not make up the normal semester load. However, a student cannot register to new courses if the number of failed courses with F, NG, or D- offered make up the normal semester load. (c) A student, who opts to remain in the same program following the first “Warning” but fails to score the expected cumulative average (CGPA), will receive the “2nd Warning”. If such students wish to continue in the same program, in the Faculty of Law they will only be allowed to register in one new course, in all other programs they will not be allowed to register in a new course in the following semester. Until Faculty of Law students meet the CGPA limits stated in Articles 20(4) and 20(5), they are required to select and register to the courses from the ones they took before, reserving the right to register to a new course. During registration, these students must register for the courses from which they received the grades: F, D- , or NG. If necessary to reach the required CGPA, they must also register for courses with grades D, D+ or C-. (d) “Final Academic Warning” is given to a student who fails to meet the expected cumulative average (CGPA) limits for three consecutive semesters. Provisions of Article 20(7) apply to such students. (8) Provisions of Articles 20(4) or 20(5) apply to transfer students starting from the semester in which they are transferred. (9) Students to whom the provisions of the Articles 20(6) and 20(7) apply are on “Probation” until they improve their CGPA to the required limits. Students who received a “Final Warning” will be dismissed from the program if they fail to achieve the required CGPA in the semester following the “Final Warning”. Music Department undergraduate students will be dismissed from the program if they fail specified courses. A By-Law defining the conditions under which a student will be dismissed from the EMU Music Undergraduate Program will be prepared and come into effect following its approval by the Senate. (10) Students subject to the provisions of Article 20(9) may transfer to another program in the University subject to the decision of the concerned Faculty or School Council and subject to the availability of contingencies. Students dismissed from a 2-year program can not transfer to a 4-year program. Students who can not transfer to another program or have already used their right of transfer as stated under Article 20(7) are dismissed from the University. (11) Horizontal or vertical transfer students who fail the provisions of Article 20(9) will be dismissed from the University.  
**Success for** **School,** **Undergraduate, and** **5-year Program** **Newly Registered** **Students Registering** **After Academic Year** **2007-08** **** |  21. |  (1) Performance of a student is based on a Grade Point Average (GPA) and Cumulative  Grade Point Average (CGPA) calculation methods at the end of each semester. Credit  received from a course is found by multiplying the credit hours by the coefficient  corresponding to the grade received. The GPA is then found by dividing the sum of the  credits received from all courses registered during the semester by the total credit  hours of the same courses. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is computed by  dividing the total credits received from all courses the student has completed since joining  the program by the sum of the credit hours of these courses. In cases when a course is  repeated, the last grade is included in the GPA and CGPA computations. In all average  computations, except for the graduation semester, the letter grades and their coefficients are  given under the related By-Law. During the graduation semester, averages should be  computed up to 2 decimals after the decimal point. (2) A student is considered successful at the end of a semester, if the Grade Point Average (GPA) and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) are at least 2.00 out of 4.00. **** (3) Students registered to the normal course load of a program in a department and scores a GPA between 3.00 and 3.49 is designated an 'Honor', if the GPA is between 3.50 and 4.00 is designated a 'High Honor'. (4) “Actual Term” refers to the Spring and Fall Semesters (except for the English Preparatory School semesters) a student takes courses within the department’s published program of study.  (5) Students enrolled in an undergraduate and/or 5-year program whose CGPA’S are specified below are considered as ‘successful’, ‘on probation’ or ‘unsuccessful’. End of Actual Term Successful Students on Unsuccessful Student (EAT) Student Probation 1st EAT 2nd EAT CGPA ≥ 1.50 1.00 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.00 < 1.50 3rd EAT CGPA ≥ 1.50 1.00 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.00 < 1.50 4th EAT CGPA ≥ 1.50 1.00 ≤ CGPA *** < 1.50 5th EAT CGPA ≥ 1.80 1.50 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.50 < 1.80 6th EAT CGPA ≥ 1.80 1.50 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.50 < 1.80 7th  EAT CGPA ≥ 1.80 1.50 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.50 < 1.80 8th and more EAT CGPA ≥ 2.00 1.80 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.80 < 2.00  *** Students who completed a minimum of 4 academic semesters (if the fourth semester is Spring Semester, then at the end of the Summer School) and who have a CGPA below 1.00 are dismissed from the program. (6) Students enrolled in a school program whose CGPA’s meet the limits specified below are considered as ‘successful’, ‘on probation’ or ‘unsuccessful’. End of Actual Term Successful Students on Unsuccessful Student (EAT) Student Probation 1st EAT  2nd EAT CGPA ≥ 1.50 1.00 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.00 < 1.50 3rd EAT CGPA ≥ 1.80 1.50 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.50 < 1.80 4th EAT CGPA ≥ 2.00 1.80 ≤ CGPA CGPA < 1.80 < 2.00 (7) The starting semester of students transferring from one program to another internally or externally is accepted as an Academic Term. However, transfer students are considered as successful at the new program at the end of the first semester of the transferred program.  (8) Based on the Student Exchange Program framework, every semester spent out of the University is considered as an Academic Term. (9) Depending on the academic performance of the student, number of courses to be taken in the upcoming semesters is determined by the ‘Course Registration By-Laws’.  (10) Undergraduate and 5-year program students who completed a minimum of 4 academic semesters (if the fourth semester is Spring Semester, then at the end of the Summer School) and who have a CGPA below 1.00 are dismissed from the program. These students are only allowed to transfer to the school programs, if requested.  (11) Unless there is a valid reason specified in By-Laws and Regulations, students are required to finish four-year programs at most in 8 years and five-year programs at most in 10 years. Periods of leave of absence are not taken into consideration in the specified periods above. Students who fail to graduate within the specified period are dismissed from the University. However, graduating students who meet specific requirements may be given an additional time period. Requirements, additional time period and rules concerning graduating students are regulated by the ‘Course Registration By-Law’.   
**Examinations** **and Success in** **Post-graduate** **Programs** |  22. |  Conditions of exams and success in Post-graduate programs are determined in the “Post- graduate Education By-law” to be made under this Regulation.  
**Regulations for Examinations and Appeals against Grades** |  23. |  General rules, principles to be followed in examinations and appeals against the marks will be covered by the “By-law for University Evaluation and Assessment” to be made under this article.  
**Training and Apprenticeship** |  24. |  A student is required to fulfill any training or apprenticeship as laid down by the department concerned. Reports on such training or apprenticeship will be evaluated by committees formed within the department. Students failing this evaluation will not be able to graduate from the program.  
**Horizontal and Vertical Student** **Transfers** |  25. |  Vertical and horizontal transfers to any program of the University are regulated by **‘** Eastern Mediterranean University Entrance Exams and Student Admission By- Laws’.  
**Receiving Education at** **Another Institution** |  26. |  Students may take courses from other higher educational institutions either during summer school or through student exchange programs. Regulations for these are under the ‘By-laws for Taking Courses Outside University’.   
**Leave of Absence** |  27. |  (1) Students may request a leave of absence on the understanding that they will return to the program of study and subject to permission being granted by the University. (2) Application for leave of absence should be made in writing to the Registrar’s office. Such applications made from abroad must be certified by a Commissioner of Oaths. (3) Students can apply for leave of absence with a valid reason within the first 5 weeks of the semester starting from the first day of the commencement of classes. Decision on these applications is given, (a) In Faculties, by the Rector, upon the proposal of the Dean who has considered the advice of the Department Chair, (b) In Post-graduate programs by the Rector upon the proposal of the Director of the Institute for Post-graduate Studies and Research, (c) In Schools by the Rector upon the proposal of the respective Director. (4) Students can apply for leave of absence only with the report of an official Health Council certifying the nature of illness or other official documentation certifying the reason put forward in the application. Such applications must be submitted within the first 5 weeks of the semester starting from the first day of the commencement of classes. In overseas applications the date of official certification is taken into consideration. Decision on all such applications is given _,_ (a) In Faculties, by the Rector upon the proposal of the Dean based on **the recommendation of the Department Academic Council**** _._** (b) In Post-graduate programs, by the Rector upon the proposal of the Director of Institute of Post-graduate Studies in coordination with the decision of the Institute’s Council, with the consideration of **the recommendation of the Department Council**.  (c) In Schools, by the Rector upon the proposal of the relevant Director based on **the School Academic Council recommendation**. (5) The applicant is given the final decision in writing by the Registrar’s Office. A copy of the decision is placed in the student’s file. (6) Appeals related to such decisions must be made to the Rectors’ office within one week after the student was informed. Such appeals are considered by the University Executive Board which will make the final decision. (7) A student can be granted at most 4 (four) semesters of leave of absence for the duration of study. Under compelling circumstances this period can be extended with the decision of the University Executive Board.  
**Returning from Leave of Absence** |  28. |  At the end of the ‘leave of absence’ period, students can simply continue their education by following the routine registration procedure. Students, who were granted ‘leave of absence’ on health grounds, must provide a certificate approved by the Health Council indicating their fitness for continuing their studies. Students granted two semesters of ‘leave of absence’ and who wish to return to their studies at the end of the first semester, should apply in writing to the Registrar’s Office. Each such application is considered according to the procedure followed in the evaluation of applications for leave of absence.  
**Graduation and Diploma Fees** |  29. |  (1) Students who have fulfilled all conditions laid down by the Department or School for graduation and who have scored a CGPA of not less than 2.0 are entitled for graduation. The graduation of each student must first be proposed by the relevant Department Council, Faculty or School Academic Council and approved by the Senate. (2) Diplomas and/or Graduation Certificates to be given to graduating students are prepared by the Registrar’s office indicating the program completed, date of graduation, title awarded and the level of graduation. Each diploma / certificate carries the signature of the Registrar, the Dean of the Faculty or the Director of the School, the Rector and the stamp of the University. (3) The following degrees and titles are given by the Faculties and Schools of the University. (a) In the Departments of the Engineering: B.S \- Bachelor of Engineering (b) In the Departments of the Faculty of Business and Economics: B.A., B.B.A., B.S. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics (c) In the Departments of the Faculty of Art and Science: B.S. – Bachelor in Basic Sciences B.A. – Bachelor of Arts B.M. – Bachelor of Music  (d) In the Departments of the Faculty of Law B.B.L. – Bachelor of Law (e) In the Departments of the Faculty of Architecture B.Arch – Bachelor of Architecture B.Int.Arch –Bachelor of Interior Architecture B.I.D – Bachelor of Industrial Design  (f) In the Departments of the Faculty of Communication B.A. – Bachelor of Arts  (g) In the Departments of the Faculty of Education B.S. –Bachelor in Basic Sciences B.A. –Bachelor of Arts  (h) In the School of Computing and Technology: A.C.A.T.D – Degree of Associate in Computer Aided Technical Drawing (2-year program) A.C.T. – Degree of Associate in Construction Technology (2-year program) H.D.C.T. – Higher Diploma in Construction and Technical Drawing Technology (3-year program) A.E.E.T. – Degree of Associate in Electrical and Electronic Technology (2-year program) H.D.E.E.T. – Higher Diploma in Electrical and Electronic Technology (3-year program) A.C.P. – Degree of Associate in Computer Programming and Information Technology (2-year program)  B.S. –Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (4-year program) A.O.M – Degree of Associate in Office Management (2-year program) A.C.A.A. – Degree of Associate in Computer Aided Accounting (2-year program) H.D.C.A.A. – Higher Diploma in Computer Aided Accounting (3-year program)  (i) In the School of Tourism and Hospitality B.S. –Bachelor of Tourism and Hospitality A.A.S. –Tourism and Hospitality Diploma (j) In the School of Applied Disciplines B.A., B.S. –Bachelor of Applied Disciplines (k) New degrees and titles can be added to or cancelled from the existing ones with the decision of the Senate.  (4) Students whose CGPA’s are between 3.50 – 4.00 receive a ‘Diploma with High Honors’ and students whose CGPA’s are between 3.00- 3.49 receive a ‘Diploma with Honors’. (5) Graduating students must pay diploma and related fees determined by the Senate.  
**** |  |  **IV. OTHER REGULATIONS**  
**Disciplinary Matters** |  30. |  Provisions of the ‘Student Disciplinary By-Laws’ are applicable in the event of a disciplinary matter.  
**** |  |  **V. CONCLUDING PROVISIONS**  
**By-Laws** |  31. |  As soon as these regulations come into effect, former ‘Eastern Mediterranean University Regulation for Education and Examinations’ is repealed.   
**** |  32. |  The Senate can make By-laws aimed at the implementation of these regulations.  
**Executive Power** |  33. |  These regulations are executed by the Rectors’ office.  
**Coming into Force** |  34. |  This Regulation comes into force following its publication in the Official Gazette _._
