**REGULATIONS FOR SUMMER SEMESTER**  
  
(By-law 189/1988, 157/1989, 92/1990, 364/1991, 112/1993, 113/1993, 234/1994, 280/1994, 158/1995, 334/1995, 1215/1996, 58/1999, 557/1999, 699/1999, 854/2007, 435/2010)

By-law Under Article 32 

Eastern Mediterranean University Rector’s Office prepared the following regulation according to Article 32 of Eastern Mediterranean University Education, Examinations and Success By-law with Senate’s approval.

This regulation also covers Regulations for Summer Semester (Amendment No.1/10 – 1/18).

****

**Brief Name  
**SEN 24.05.1989 89/46-6, SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2, SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4, SEN 31.03.2010 10/316-5, VYK 06.09.2018 17-18/27-6 |  **1.** |  “Eastern Mediterranean University Regulations for Summer Semester”   
---|---|---  
**Aim and Scope** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4 |  **2.** |  This regulation aims to regulate the rules regarding course registration, tuition fee, examination, success and evaluation procedures applied in Eastern Mediterranean University Summer Semester.  
**Aim of Summer Semester** |  **3.** |  (1) For the students who failed their courses but hold the right to continue their studies in the university, Summer Semester aims to provide an opportunity by offering summer courses where such students get a chance to pass the failed courses and move on to “regular” student status. (2) For the students who are successful in their studies, Summer Semester aims to provide an opportunity to complete their studies before the standards duration of their registered programs.  
**Duration** |  **4.** |  Summer Semester is available during the period between Spring and Fall Semesters. Study period during this semester cannot exceed eight weeks. Starting and finishing dates of Summer Semester is specified in University Calendar.   
**Summer Semester Courses and Registration** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4, SEN 29.07.2015 15/387-6 |  **5.** |  (1) According to the Faculty/School Board of student’s registered program, maximum of 3 courses with the condition of not exceeding total of 12 credits can be taken during the Summer Semester.  
|  **** |  (2) University’s standard program courses can be offered during the Summer Semester.  
|  **** |  (3) Courses envisaged to be offered during the Summer Semester are announced by the Rector’s Office at least four weeks prior to the commencement date of Summer Semester.  
|  **** |  (4) Students wishing to take such courses, pre-register to Summer School within the duration specified by the Rector’s Office.  
|  **** |  (5) Reaching a minimum number of pre-registered students specified by the Rector’s Office is required in order to open a course during the Summer Semester.  
|  **** |  (6) Course registrations are completed abiding by EMU Regulations for Course Registration.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2 **** |  **** |  (7) Students successfully completing the Foreign Languages and Preparatory School have the right to register Summer Semester courses of their registered programs.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2 **** |  **** |  (8) Depending on the Cumulative Grade Point Averages (CGPA) acquired at the end of the Spring Semester, students are primarily obliged to registered to the courses they received grades of (D-), (F), (NG) or (U) under the condition of such courses being offered during the Summer Semester with respect to the criteria specified in the Regulations for Education, Examination and Success. If graduating students who failed maximum of two courses and have left same amount of courses that they can register during the Summer Semester, are not obliged to register the course they had failed on the condition of such courses being offered during the Summer Semester. Instead of registering Summer Semester, the graduating students have the right to apply for Graduation Make-up Examination.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2 |  **** |  (9) For any reason, students can withdraw from a registered Summer Semester course by providing an approval of Department Head/School Director within the first 27 working days starting from the first day of Summer School classes. The withdrawn course is transferred to the student’s transcript with the grade of “W”.  
**Tuition Fee** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **6.** |  An extra amount of tuition fee is paid for Summer Semester courses apart from the tuition fees specified in Article 7 of EMU Regulations for Education, Examination and Success. The amount to be paid per course is announced by the Rector’s Office at least four weeks prior to the commencement date of Summer Semester.  
**Examinations** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **7.** |  Summer Semester Examinations are regulated within the framework of the rules specified in Article 19 of EMU Regulations for Education, Examination and Success.  
**Success and Evaluation** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **8.** |  (1) End-of-semester grades received during the Summer Semester are regulated within the framework of the rules specified in Article 16 of EMU Regulations for Education, Examination and Success. (2) Summer Semester courses are listed separately from the Spring & Fall Semester grades under “Summer Semester” title on the student transcripts.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2, |  |  (3) The success achieved during the Summer Semester is counted in determining the CGPA of the students but, Summer Semester is not accepted as an “Actual Semester”.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2 |  |  (4) At the end of the Summer Semester, students who get a CGPA below the anticipated limits specified in Articles 20 and 21 of Regulations for Education, Examination and Success are processed with the same rules during the following semester applied with respect to the specified articles of the same regulation.  
SEN 18.12.1996 96/150-5 EK 2 |  |  (5) Summer Semester is not considered to be within the scope of “last two semesters” in terms of Graduation Make-up Examination specified in Article 8 of EMU Regulations for Education, Examination and Success. At the end of Summer Semester and in an event of student being able to graduate, the student is given a chance to take a Graduation Make-up Exam for a course during the present Summer Semester and/or for maximum of two courses from maximum of two previous semesters by providing a Board decision of the Department/School which the student is registered in.  
**Courses to be Taken During Summer Semesters in Other Higher Education Institutions apart from Eastern Mediterranean University** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4, SEN 31.03.2010 10/316-5, VYK 06.09.2018 17-18/27-6 |  **9.** |  (1) Students can take courses in other Higher Education Institutions during Summer Semesters by abiding the rules specified in “Eastern Mediterranean University Regulations for Taking Courses in Another Institution”. (2) Letter grades of the courses to be taken from another institution apart from Eastern Mediterranean University are processed with respect to the rules specified in EMU Regulations for Exemptions and Equivalency.  
**Other Matters** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **10.** |  Any provisions not defined in this Regulation are subject to the provisions of EMU Regulations for Education, Examinations and Success.  
**Executive Power** 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **11.** |  This Regulation is executed by EMU Rector’s Office.   
**Coming into Force** SEN 23.06.2008 08/290-4 EK 4**** |  **12.** |  This Regulation comes into force following the date of its approval by the Board of Trustees. 
